# Docotron

Mindlab's answer to there being no consistent and useful method for consolidating repository documentation.

## What is it?

It's a command line application that will allow uniform documenting of different entities from different languages.

## Eh?

Basically it uses file comments in R, Python and Javascript in addition to markdown files and special `.docotron.json` files to compile a common representation that we can use to structure our documentation. A key feature is that we can combine documentation across multiple repositories into a single webpage.

## How?

`docotron` is a node command line tool. Typical usage would be as follow

```
npm install -g docotron

docotron generate ./my_project ./docs/my_project
docotron generate ./other_project ./docs/other_project
```

At this point the folder `/docs` will have a rather abstract representation of the code documentation from two projects. Now we can compile all of this into a nice webpage

```
docotron build ./docs
```

## Amazing!!! How did you do that?

Actually, it's not that clever. In fact `docotron` is spectaularly stupid. Most documentation tools available actually care about the code that is being documented whereas `docotron` does not. I.e, you can easily generate documentation that has absolutely no relationship with the the underlying codebase. It's your job to make sure the documentation is accurate. However, if you think about it that is also the case with other documenting tools, it's just that in `docotron`'s case it does not even check function arguments or even functions that have been documented exist.


## Give me the deets

### Different types of entities in `docotron` 

`docotron` is pretty opinionated. The documentation is made up of the following heirarchy

- __Repositories__: a collection of the following:
    - __Pages__: Markdown documents that describe the repository
    - __Packages__: A repository can be heirarchicaly structured in terms of these. For example packages can have sub packages etc.
        - __Classes__: What is says on the tin.
        - __functions__: again obvs
    - __ContainerSettings__: If the repository is a microservice then we can use this type of documentation to show how the container can be configured.
    - __ApiRoutes__: Again if we have a microservice then it's important to be able to know how to use it via http.

The markdown generated by `docotron` has the following capabilities

- Latex rendering so you can get real nerdy with the maths.
- Syntax highlighting

> Note: that markdown __Pages__, __ContainerSettings__ and __ApiRoutes__ can be added at any level of the heirarchy. I.e, they can live within subpackages. Hence, one whole subpackage could be a division of a web API into different parts.

### Specifying structure

The structure of a repository can be inferred. However we can override this by using a `.docotron.json` file. Whenever such a file is encountered in a folder it corresponds to introducing a new level into the documentation heirarchy. 

> See, I told you it was opinionated. Basically `docotron` requires that your code is logically separated and heirarchically organised.

Whenever `docotron` scans a project folder and encounters a `.docotron.json` file it will add this to the parent. When the documents are generated this results in a new sub page.

`.docotron.json` files look like the below.

~~~json
{
    "title": "MySubPackage",
    "items": [
        {
            "type": "header",
            "title": "Classes"
        },
        {
            "type": "page",
            "title": "MyClass",
            "page_type": "function",
            "src": "<unique_id_that_points_to_function_documentation>"
        },
        {
            "type": "docotron",
            "title": "A subpackage",
            "src": "<pointer_to_the_docotron_file>"
        }
    ]    
}
~~~

You can see that this basically reflects a menu structure in the documentation. As intimated above the different `page` types are `markdown`, `function`, `class`, `container-settings` and `web-api`.

### Creating documentation

So the case of using markdown is obvious. You just use the `.docotron.json` file to point to where it is in the codebase.

To document within code you use comment blocks that start with `!docotron`

I.e,

In javascript:
~~~js
/*
    !docotron
    ...<stuff_here>
*/
~~~

In R and python:

~~~r
# !docotron
# ...<stuff here>
#
~~~

In the following we will use the javascript comments to illustrate

#### Documenting classes

~~~js

/*
    !docotron: class
    name: MyClass
    extends: SuperClass
    description: `MyClass` is used to do funky stuff
*/
class MyClass extends Superclass {


    /*
        !docotron: constructor
        param[arg1]: it's the first input argument
        param[arg2]: another one
        syntax: new MyClass(arg1, arg2)
        description: Creates a new class instance
    */
    constructor(arg1, arg2){
        // ...blah
    }


    /*
        !docotron: static-method
        name: doTheThing
        param[arg]: it's the only input
        syntax: MyClass.doTheThing(arg)
        description: It does the thing
    */
    static doTheThing(arg){
        // ...blah
    }


    /*
        !docotron: method
        name: goForIt
        syntax: instance.goForIt(arg)
        description: it goes for it!
    */
    goForIt(){

    }

}

~~~

`docotron` will scan the file until it encouters either the end of the file or another `!docotron` statement that is neither a constructor nor (static?) class method.



#### Documenting functions

~~~js
/*
    !docotron: function
    ref: lets-go-function
    name: letsGo
    description: `letsGo` hey, ho.
    param[arg1] <integer>: it's the first input argument
    param[arg2] <string>: another one
    returns <object>: loads of stuff 
*/
function letsGo(arg1, arg2){
    // do something cool
}
~~~


#### Documenting API routes

Here we make the assumption that most times our server routes should wrap a controller method however we can omit that information if required.

~~~js
/*
    !docotron: api-route
    method: post
    url: /experiment/<experiment_id>/create
    description: Use this URL to create an experiment
    payload: {
        name<string>,
        other<integer>
    }
    params[participant_id]: injects the participant ID into the session
    returns <integer>
    status[400]: { reason<string> } Can fail because the participant id is already in use
    status[500]: { reason<string> } The application totally fucked up
    controller: {
        syntax: letsGo(participant_id),
        $ref: lets-go-function
    }
    
*/
express.use('/experiment/<experiment_id>/start', (req, res) => {
    // awesome stuff
})
~~~


#### Documenting Container Configuration


~~~js
/*
    !docotron: environment-variable
    name: ENABLE_DEBUG
    description: Set to true to enable debugging
*/
const enable_debugging = process.env.ENABLE_DEBUG
~~~
